hey guys what's up welcome back to the
small ethics channel so today I'm
talking about how to track your progress
the best tools methods and pros and cons
of each so that you can ensure that
you're seeing results and if you're not
you can actually take the steps to start
seeing results and then measure that
measuring your progress finding some
metric in some way we'll talk about all
the different ways it's really important
because it will allow you to see your
progress happening and that in itself is
one of those motivating things when you
have a goal of any kind seeing that
you're tracking with it and you're
making progress is going to help keep
your motivation high and help you keep
working towards achieving that goal so
without further ado let's hop into my
favorite ways to track results and the
pros and cons and all the good stuff by
the way you guys I am doing a huge
content audit for small lytx right now
specifically for YouTube for 2020 if
there is anything that you would like to
see on this channel that would help you
in your healthy lifestyle as a petite
woman please please please drop a
comment below and let me know what you
would actually use in your life wait
what would help you more workouts more
nutrition and be specific and I will add
that to my content creation list for the
year that would be super great if you
have any requests drop them below and I
will make that reality for you guys okay
so when it comes to tracking progress
there is no one right way to do it and a
step further from that is it completely
depends on the goal how you're going to
measure progress depends entirely on the
goal if you are trying to gain weight
you might measure progress differently
than if you're trying to lose weight if
you are trying to be able to do one
pull-up in the gym that is going to look
different then if you're trying to lose
weight in the gym you catch my drift
it's going to look different so step one
before you even try to come up with
fancy ways to monitor your progress
write your goals down somewhere and make
sure they're actionable actionable
that's not one of the things specific
that you have a time rate for them
and that you know exactly what you're
trying to achieve and get really
specific on what that is that you want
to achieve that is going to help you
figure out how you're going to track
progress on that goal okay so let's get
into it my favorite ways to track by far
are probably progress photos the reason
I like this is because it allows you to
see changes that might not be reflected
on the scale that would be body
composition changes I also like progress
photos because they empower you to get
more comfortable taking photos of
yourself in a bikini or whatever and I
think that's just good practice I think
it it really can at least for me it
helps me get more comfortable behind a
camera it's helped me feel more
comfortable just loving my body the way
it is and I also get a fresh perspective
on my body as I'm training and I think
it's just been healthy for me now all my
clients take progress photos in a petite
power program and it's funny because no
one likes taking progress but it's like
I myself included now I like them but
for so long they were like that thing I
had to do that felt really intimidating
and it's like I don't want to get in a
bathing suit right now and like I just
don't feel good today you know you come
with all these excuses right but once
you actually do it and you have photos
from six months ago to today it is so
amazing to see how much your body can
change when you're consistent in the gym
and you're working towards a goal can
also see changes in your progress photos
that you won't be able to see in on the
scale for example if you're working on
gaining muscle and losing fat a true
body recomposition you want to measure
your progress in ways that shows changes
in body composition not just weight
because if you gain muscle and lose fat
sometimes the scale won't change too
much or you could end up gaining a few
pounds of muscle but actually end up
looking leaner you know three to six
months from now because you have done
this body recom so the scale is not the
only form of measuring and it's not the
most accurate depending on your goal
which brings me to the second form of
measurement the scale you can use the
scale if you like it it is not reliable
though I want you to know that if you're
using the scale it should not be super
important to you and it should not
your only method of tracking progress
it's just not reliable there's so much
that is going to affect your weight on a
given day especially as a woman changes
in water retention and fluctuations
hormonal changes that cause you to
retain water such as being on your
period there's also if you had a really
hard workout the day before your body's
gonna hold on to some extra math if you
don't sleep a lot at night you might
this scale might change there's so much
alcohol more having a heavier carb day
it will appear that you gained weight
but it's not weight it's all water
fluctuations so if you're gonna wear
yourself on the scale weigh yourself
maybe once a week and look at the
long-term ups and downs of the results
for that because daily it's going to
fluctuate two to three pounds and
there's nothing you can do about that
and that's totally normal okay next up
fat calc birds or skin fold caliper I
just bought a pair of these myself after
my coach Tracey fourth day you can look
her up she's amazing she recommended we
add this in I'm tracking all the things
right now you guys can check out my
blogs bollocks comm slash blog to see my
personal challenge that I'm on I'm on
week five crushing it and I'm using
these now I have not used them yet but I
get the gist I know that using these can
be a little bit challenging and you have
to be really know what you're doing with
them but in general you pinch the side
of your skin right here on the your
right side you try to get a good skin
fold if you can see this there's like a
zero slider you put it all the way here
you try to get a good fold and then you
press down until you hear that click and
then when you come out you will have a
measurement and you can see this is from
it's in twos so based on that I had or
six I hit six millimeters so then your
fat skin fold caliper should come with a
little chart and it tells you you know
where you are on this thing so if you
look at for me age 26 to 30 and I got a
six sixteen point nine percent body fat
which is generally what I thought I was
at so it's pretty uh pretty
right is it the most accurate no but the
most accurate would be a DEXA scan or
something that you might not have access
to on a daily or even monthly basis or
might not even be one in your area so
you could use fat calipers and these are
going to be good for you if you are at a
lower body fat percentage so maybe below
30% body fat and you are looking to lose
fat this is going to help you measure
your fat loss now if you are a little
bit higher in body fat using a measuring
tape is going to be better for you
you're going to have easier time
tracking your progress using a measuring
tape and what I do I take measurements
as well I always do my biceps which tent
I tend to want to grow I will also
measure natural waist so I'll do that
right above the belly button kind of at
the thinnest part of your waist you
could also do belly button if you want
and then I'll measure my hips so around
the butt in the widest area and then
also I'll do my right thigh and you can
do upper and lower thigh if you like
also optional if you like you can do
your neck if you have a lot of weight to
lose that can also be a good measurement
to take something else that I've started
using I've talked about this a few times
is my Ren foe bluetooth scale I got this
for like $30 off of Amazon it's a
Bluetooth scale it has these little
metal things here that read your body
composition so it takes a bunch of data
into account your muscle mass your body
fat your obviously your we it has your
metabolic age it has all of these cool
little stats that I like is it the most
accurate form of measuring these things
absolutely not however if you get this
and you find that it's consistent from
day to day then at least you have
consistent data so you can actually see
if you're improving or not say it says
I'm 18 percent body fat when in reality
I'm 17 percent if it consistently tells
me I'm 18 percent and I start a fitness
goal and I see it slowly go down to 17
then at least it's consistent enough to
give me information that what I'm doing
is working right so there is value in it
even if it's on a hundred percent
accurate
now there's also fitness trackers which
you can use if you have for example a
step count goal I use my watch to look
at step counts
and also have a goal to take shorter
breaks at your gym so shorter rest
periods between exercises and supersets
think about what you want to achieve and
then choose you know two to three ways
of measuring that inspire you and make
you feel excited and those will be your
rest back now this one's really fun I
always have my women do this a fitness
test once a month I have my women do a
push-up test just to see how their
strength has increased you could do a
pull-up test again whatever you're
working on you can do a little fitness
test for yourself once a month and see
if you're getting stronger this would be
ideal if you have a goal to just
generally get stronger that's an awesome
way to test that make sure it's the same
circumstances same workout that you're
testing yourself on each month so if
you're testing yourself on push-ups
pull-ups and burpees or cardio whatever
it is keep it consistent and log how
your results have been and you'll start
to see your progress either you know
you're progressing which is good it
means you've got to keep going or you're
not progressing in which case you need
to evaluate the current plan and track
you're on and course-correct another
thing to keep in mind if strength is one
of your goals I highly highly recommend
keeping a lifting journal okay this
could just be in your sticky notes it
can be a little excel sheet right down
the whit's you're using in every single
workout in every single exercise and
record it this is so important because
if you want to get stronger you have to
use progressive overload you have to
increase your weight but if you don't
know what you're consistently lifting
you're probably not gonna live heavier
and get stronger so make sure you keep a
lifting journal I have fun with this to
just create a fun little one in Google
sheets and voila download the Google
sheets app and you can open it in the
gym and log in all your weights you can
look at last week's weights and go up by
2 to 3 pounds and just continue
progressing those weights so you can see
results now I want to get into some more
subjective ways to measure goals which
are just as important they're very
important because mental health during
your challenge or whatever you're trying
to improve on is really really important
you have to seek care of yourself you
have to make sure that you're feeling
good and you're benefiting from the
challenge
you've set for yourself so I highly
suggest keeping a journal while you are
working on your goal this can be a
journal for yourself this could be a
little blog you set up this could be
texting your mom and telling you telling
about how you felt after each workout
every week for me it's when I blog to
you guys and let you know what my
struggles were what how I was feeling
what if I made progress or not that's
what keeps me accountable and that is
also kind of my journal I might have set
my expectations a little too high for
that because I have not updated you guys
in sense I think week one on my blog and
I wanted to do it weekly however I'm
working on it and I haven't forgotten
about you guys I just create so much
content for you adding a blog during the
busiest time of the year was probably
not the best idea but I want to do it
and I will update it but that would be
my version of a journal I also think you
should keep a journal because knowing
your subjective feelings around your
workout programming or your authority or
nutrition programming is so important to
progressing so if you are following a
lifestyle that's not making you happy
then you can learn more about why it's
not making you happy through free
writing and journaling and figure out
well what do I need to change to get
back on track to make progress keeping a
journal just about your feelings and
thoughts and how everything is working
out for you if you would if you enjoyed
nighttime workouts more than
morning-time workouts when you feel
strongest in your body the journal will
help you so much with organizing your
thoughts and seeing you know what's
working in your current lifestyle and
what's not and then making a plan to
move on to the next stage and think of
it as like a fun puzzle to move to the
next step so you have all this data but
you have to do something with it right
and that's gonna help propel you to the
next step if you feel overwhelmed doing
this alone like I said just focus on one
to two ways you want to measure progress
and enlist some help get a coach get an
accountability buddy get a friend get a
coder coworker get someone involved in
your plan your game plan
and check in with them weekly or daily
and that could be all you need seriously
to stay consistent now those are a lot
of tools and you don't even have to use
any of them because you don't have to
have goals either this is just for you
if you do have a goal and I want to make
it really clear that whatever your goals
are for 2020 or for January or now
whatever you're working on I fully
support you it does not have to be a fat
loss goal it doesn't have to be a
weight-loss goal it does not have to be
a totally goal goal at all whatever
you're working on for yourself that's
making you happier and making you feel
more powerful in your body as petite
woman I fully support that but for my
girls who do want to track their
progress and get some cool data and
learn about their bodies and work
towards our goals these are the tools I
would recommend and again don't do them
all just choose a couple and then roll
with it all right you guys remember to
let me know in the comments what you
want to see from smolitics
in the next few months i'm making a
massive content tutor for you guys and i
hopefully will have so much value and
awesome content plans and if you like
this video please give it a thumbs up
ask any questions in the comments and i
will see you next week bye
[Music]